Good morning, Jacob. Happy Monday. Here's your week in review
for the week of March thirtieth through April fifth, twenty
twenty-six. ... Let's start with the big picture. If you
had to tell someone what this week was about in
one sentence, it would be this: the world moved fast
and you kept up. An active war crossed new thresholds,
a moon mission launched, Apple turned fifty, you pitched Claude
at work, wrote five chapters of a novel, named a
robot vacuum, and somehow still found time to have Indian
food with your friends on a Thursday night. That's a
full week by anyone's measure. Let's unpack it. The Week
That Was This was a week defined by escalation on
every axis. The Iran war went from Day thirty-one to
Day thirty-seven. Trump went from threatening Kharg Island on Monday
to threatening NATO on Wednesday to giving a primetime "back
to the Stone Ages" address on Thursday night to a
forty-eight-hour ultimatum that expires today. An F-fifteen was shot down
on Friday — the first U-S aircraft lost to enemy
fire — and one crew member spent two days behind
enemy lines in the mountains of Iran before being extracted
in a dramatic rescue on Saturday. Brent crude swung from
a hundred and sixteen dollars to briefly under a hundred
and back to a hundred and ten. Gas crossed four
dollars a gallon nationally. Trump threatened to destroy desalination plants,
hit civilian water infrastructure, and withdraw from NATO, all in
the same week. The phrase "back to the Stone Ages"
was used in a presidential address on national television, and
markets moved accordingly. Meanwhile, four humans launched toward the moon
on Wednesday evening — the first crewed lunar mission since
nineteen seventy-two — and today they complete the flyby, breaking
the record for the farthest humans have ever traveled from
Earth. Artemis Two launched clean. The trans-lunar injection burn was
flawless. Microsoft Outlook broke on the spacecraft, because of course
it did, and Mission Control had to remote in to
fix it. Commander Wiseman said from orbit, quote, "We have
a beautiful moonrise. We're headed right at it." That sentence
will be in textbooks. Apple turned fifty on Wednesday. Paul
McCartney played Apple Park. Employees got commemorative pins and a
scribble-style rainbow logo poster. Ben Thompson published what may be
his definitive Apple piece, arguing that hardware-software integration has been
Apple's moat for half a century and A-I is the
only credible long-term threat. Apple announced plans to open Siri
to rival A-I assistants in i-O-S twenty-seven. Dustin got his
AirPods Max Two in Midnight — not black, Midnight, as
Alex will never stop reminding everyone — and declared he
likes the weight on his head. Highlights and Wins Let's
talk about what went right. First: the creative writing streak.
Five chapters of The Keeping House in five days, Monday
through Friday. That's roughly seventeen thousand words of literary fiction,
each chapter published as a podcast episode. Chapter three gave
us Noor discovering the barn. Chapter four gave us Fen's
first honest sentence. Chapter five gave us Lena at four
A-M with a burst pipe, falling back into the caretaking
pattern she named at the gathering. The momentum was real
and the quality held. Saturday was a well-earned rest day.
Second: three deep-dive research posts published to Jacob's Research Journal
on Saturday — a W-W-D-C twenty twenty-six preview, a piece
on recursive self-improvement leaving the lab, and one on G-L-P-one
drugs as accidental longevity medicine. Fourteen to fifteen sources each.
That's a serious intellectual output alongside the creative work. Third:
the carpet is installed and it looks great. Katelyn loved
the photos. Ben came down to help and the brothers
bonded over Minecraft. Mom and Dad showed up unannounced during
the install — your mom's phone appeared on your Wi-Fi,
which is how you found out. Classic Julia. Fourth: Rosie
the Roborock is operational. You told Siri to mop the
hallway and it started right up, which you described as
"an epic feeling," and honestly, it is. Fifth: Manifold Markets.
Four-day prediction streak, first place in Gold league. The gambling
instincts are sharp. Stories That Evolved Let's track some stories
across the week. The Iran war is the obvious one.
Monday's briefing opened with Trump threatening Kharg Island and uranium
seizure. Tuesday brought threats to desalination plants — a potential
war crime under the Geneva Conventions. Wednesday he threatened to
leave NATO and said the war would end in two
to three weeks, which briefly dropped oil below a hundred
dollars. Thursday was the primetime address: "back to the Stone
Ages." Friday, an F-fifteen went down and the war got
viscerally real. Saturday, the pilot was rescued and Trump issued
another forty-eight-hour ultimatum — his fourth — demanding Iran reopen
Hormuz by today. Iran rejected it. A forty-five-day ceasefire is
reportedly under discussion. Today is the deadline. The Anthropic story
also evolved significantly. Monday's briefing had your pilot meeting prep.
Tuesday was last-minute cramming. Wednesday was the appeal deadline eve.
Thursday was the meeting itself — I-T threw up roadblocks,
which was frustrating but not unexpected. The D-O-J filed its
appeal, confirming this fight goes to the Ninth Circuit. Friday,
Anthropic bought Coefficient Bio for four hundred million dollars, launched
AnthroPAC, and confirmed an Open-Claw competitor is coming. By Saturday,
the company had gone from courtroom defendant to biotech acquirer
to political actor in the span of five days. Revenue
is at nineteen billion annualized. I-P-O discussions at four to
five hundred billion valuation. The company you're trying to pilot
at work is having a moment. The third story is
subtler: Katelyn. She started the week missing you — "I
wish we could crash and watch Jeopardy together tonight." Wednesday
was a rough night where she went on an emergency
run to clear her head. Friday, something deeply unsettling happened
— a man publicly exposing himself during one of her
runs — and she's filing a police report. By Saturday
she was exhausted, missed the eight-fifteen ferry, and sent a
photo from the ten A-M line. The long-distance ache ran
through the whole week. She forwarded the Axios Seattle piece
about Washington's new A-I laws because she thinks about your
work even when you're apart. She's excited about the Roborock.
She misses your runs together. The emotional texture of the
week was present in every exchange. Vault Activity The vault
was busy. Beyond the five chapters and three research posts,
here's what got attention: the gm skill was formally documented
in a reference file; the March twenty twenty-six Monthly Review
was modified; the Spring twenty twenty-six Fitness Plan was updated;
the Reading Queue for April was created; and a Vault
Hygiene Audit was started. The research journal got archived to
Q-two Archives. A Research Paper Queue was created with thirteen
future topics. The vault isn't just storing information — it's
actively being organized and maintained, which is the kind of
infrastructure work that pays off over months. Files modified in
the last seven days span Health and Fitness, Career, Personal
Finance, Productivity and Systems, Life Planning, and Creative Writing. That's
broad engagement across every P-A-R-A area. Relationship Check Katelyn was
present all week — late-night conversations about dogs and chili
and Australia and robot vacuums and the Anthropic biotech acquisition
and how much she misses just being able to chill
together after a long day. Thursday was her off day.
She forwarded the Washington A-I regulation article, which is relevant
to both the Claude pilot and the Seattle job search.
The Friday incident was serious — check in on the
police report. Ben came down Monday and Tuesday for the
carpet install. Mom and Dad made a surprise appearance. Brothers
bonded over Minecraft and the Roborock. Ben wants to come
back just to watch Rosie clean. Thursday dinner with Alex,
Chris, and Dustin was Indian food. Dustin's AirPods Max are
his new personality. Alex wants to do an "Apple News
and walk" soon. Chris discovered Tacolate at midnight and had
a religious experience. Crossley is moving to the Netherlands. Shayla
is quietly moving this summer — Alex asked you to
act like you don't know. The friend group is navigating
transitions. The Week Ahead Today is Artemis Two's lunar flyby
— the record-breaking moment. Communications blackout around five forty-seven P-M
Eastern when Orion passes behind the moon. Also today: Trump's
forty-eight-hour Hormuz ultimatum expires. The deadline is tonight. Tomorrow, Tuesday
April seventh, is the Proposition A vote — capital improvement
sales tax renewal for Cole County. Review your ballot. Thursday,
April ninth, is Katelyn's off day. Call her. Friday through
Sunday, April tenth through twelfth, the U-S fifty bridge demolition
closes ramps locally. Plan your route. Congress returns April thirteenth.
The D-H-S shutdown could finally get resolved — the Senate
passed a bill, the House needs to act. Looking further:
Katelyn's half marathon is twenty-eight days out. Dustin leaves for
Europe in thirty-three days. The Capital City Race is thirty-four
days. Last Day of Session is forty days. W-W-D-C is
sixty-four days. Your trip to Washington is a hundred and
nine days. What to Watch Three stories for the week
ahead. First: does the Hormuz deadline hold or slide again?
This is the fourth time Trump has set and moved
a deadline. A forty-five-day ceasefire is reportedly being discussed, which
would be the first real de-escalation since the war began.
Watch for movement today and tomorrow. Second: the Anthropic Ninth
Circuit appeal. The D-O-J filed but the Ninth Circuit hasn't
ruled. If they deny the stay, the injunction holds and
Anthropic's government business normalizes. If they grant it, the Pentagon
ban resumes pending full appeal. This directly affects the political
climate around your Claude pilot. Third: Artemis Two's return trajectory.
After today's flyby, the crew heads home, arriving around April
eleventh. This is the last moon mission without Silicon Valley
— future Artemis missions use Space-X's Starship. We're watching the
end of one era and the beginning of another, in
real time. And that's the week, Jacob. You wrote five
chapters, published three research posts, pitched Claude at work, installed
a carpet, named a robot, went to dinner with your
friends, paid your bills, voted for predictions, and watched humans
launch toward the moon. Katelyn misses you. Your parents love
you enough to drive to J-C unannounced with snacks. The
vault is growing. The river crested and the flood warnings
expired. The forty-eight-hour clock is ticking in the Persian Gulf,
and four astronauts are about to fly behind the far
side of the moon. One of those things you can
do something about, and it's not the one you think
— it's voting on Proposition A tomorrow. The rest is
history, unfolding in real time, and you've got a front-row
seat. Happy Monday. The week is yours.